# Installing A Working Fedora 27 x86_64 Release

I have been using Fedora for quite some time.  It was my first Linux distro as far back as Fedora 8.  Recently, I wanted to upgrade to the latest version of Fedora, at the time of this writing, which is Fedora 31 (KDE Plasma 5.17.5).  I'm a KDE fan, and I have been using it since Fedora 8.

### Preamble

I have been using an older version for some time, and it was beginning to show its age with missing security patches and outdated tools.  In my old Sun Sparc workstation days, you never installed a binary _anything_.  You built the tool/library that you needed from source and installed it either in /use/local/\* or /opt or where ever you wanted.  Packages were tar source files.  But as software became more complex, pre-built packages became the norm.  An managing the dependencies between these packages and their versions suddenly exploded in complexity.  It was no longer just a matter (for the most part) of installing a binary package and "calling it a day."  That package might have dependencies on other packages that are not installed on your system, or installing that package may conflict with packages already installed on your system, or even that version of the package is incompatible with your system.

But, robust package managers were developed to handle these complex dependencies.  Additionally, the package itself could no longer be a simple collection of "things" to just install at their target location(s).  This packaging _format_ had to contain knowledge about its version and what dependencies and their versions were needed to complete a successful install.  This is contained in the package's metadata.  There are a bunch of different package formats available (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Package_format) and RPM is the one Fedora uses along with yum/dnf as the framework to manages those package interactions with the installed OS and other packages (installed or dependant) on the system.

Anyway, all of that long winded stuff was to provide the context of how complicated an OS installation can be.  Trying to figure out these dependencies and interaction between various packages is way, way too much to do by hand anymore (not impossible, but really, really impracticable.

### So, What's The "Big Deal" About Installing Fedora 27?

Well, it started when something I needed to do required a later version of a library.  Unfortunately, there was no easy upgrade path for that library on the current version of Fedora I was running -- too many upstream problems and those broke some things on the installed system.  So I decided to upgrade my Fedora version.  The version I picked (at that time) was Fedora 29.

The install was pretty uneventful, and I was kinda used to the KDE upgrade mindset by that time.  The basic stuff worked as expected -- of course, it should!  Until I tried to launch VirtualBox on a VM I had been using on my current version of Fedora.  Now I had been testing VirtualBox on this new Fedora 29 system for other __easy__ VMs, but this VM halted right away.  Google didn't help and I tried several iterations of rebuilding the VM from scratch, etc. and so on.  I tried building the version of VirtualBox that ran the VM on Fedora 29, but that was another hornet's nest.  Finally, in fustration (and because I needed the VM) I reverted the entire system back to the old Fedora version.  I chalked the whole thing up to a broken VirtualBox version and the 'net seemed to support that suspicion.
